So we just got done doing
something almost magical.
We wrote a Python program
that talked to Google and
used the Google geolocation search engine
to look up a user-entered bit of data
and get back all kinds of information
like the real address of the place and
perhaps if there was a business there
we would find this, and you're like,
whoa, that's pretty cool.
Well, Google doesn't
just let you have access.
What we did was free,
but these APIs, the data,
the compute servers and
all the debugging are not free.
I mean, Google's spent a lot of money to
make sure that that data really worked,
and we use it every day in
Google Maps, right?
And they make some money
off of Google Maps.
But they don't want you to be
able to use their intelligence
to make your own own competitor,
and so these are rate limited.
So, if you take a look at Google,
you will see that you cannot do an
infinite number of these things.
Or, in other situations,
you have to have a key and
you might even have to charge for usage.
So if you take a look at some more detail,
you will see that this geocoding API that
we just used means you can
only do 2500 requests per day.
If you want to make a business you can
pay for a higher limit, for example.
And you can read right there,
they're there to abuse or repurposing
and, you know, they might change it.
So always, when you're working with an API,
figure out what the rules are.
It turns out, we're going to use this
API later in the course, and
we're going to have to use a database
to deal with the fact that
if we were really going to use this
seriously, we could only do 2500 and
if we had 10,000 of these things
it would take you four days.
But you've got to run a program that
starts and stops on one day then waits.
Starts and stops the next day then waits.
And on and on and on.
So, that's the Google geocoding API.
I like that because it's rate limited.
And it doesn't have a password.
So now what we're going to do
is we're going ro use the Twitter API.
So I started with the Google API, because
that did not require authentication.
But the Twitter API does
require authentication.
Now I've given you sample
code that does this.
Please don't sort of abuse Twitter.
Don't get yourself kicked off on Twitter.
When you're running these applications,
make sure that you print
everything through a loop.
And hit Ctrl-C or blow it up or whatever.
So, don't get yourself in
trouble using the Twitter API.
I'm not going to give you
any Twitter assignments.
I just want to sort of
show you how this works.
So, what happens with Twitter is that
you must run this API as yourself.
So, normally you could log into Twitter and
you can use it on the Web and
it knows who you are.
But when you're using this API,
you've got to hand some information to
the application to pretend to be you.
And in Twitter they use
a technology called OAuth.
And they give you what
are called access tokens.
And what you do is you use these tokens
to generate signatures that you send and
then Twitter checks the signature and
knows it's you.
So Twitter has a rate limiting,
but unlike Google's rate limiting,
which kind of is based on your address,
or who knows what it's based on,
Twitter's rate limiting says
you, no matter what,
can do sort of 25 of these things a day
or 2500 of these things a day.
So you have to go into Twitter,
if you have a Twitter account.
And you go into access tokens and
you basically are going to
create a new access token.
And so you have to authorize
an application.
And so you say,
I'd like to add an application.
I'd like to give it permissions.
So you add the application.
And ultimately,
when it's all said and done, and
I just called the application Python
on my laptop, and then gave it a key.
Now the key ends up on the screen, like
here, it ends up in little areas that you
cut and paste, and
you have to cut and paste these keys.
You click on here and you read all
the stuff and you get all the stuff, and
then you have it.
And then there is a little file in
my application called hidden.py,
and it's got exactly this.
It's not the real key, but they look
kind of like this, except much longer.
So if you're going to use the Twitter API,
the first thing you have to do is edit
this and put in the consumer key,
the consumer secret, the token key,
and the token secret.
And those things all come from
this page and this page in here.
You just are cutting and pasting.
So there's API.
You scroll down, and you'll get a secret.
You click on here, and
I'll get the other two values.
So you have to know what those are,
and don't share those with people.
You notice I have them hidden.
And that's because I don't want to share
them with you because then you could do
something, right?
So I take the screen shot and
blank the stuff out.
And then when I put this in the
file for myself,
which I won't show you,
I currently have my values in there.
Now this doesn't authorize anybody,
but it authorizes an application.
So I go to Twitter, I put these values.
I say I need to authorize an application.
And it gives you these four strings that
you then can authorize the application.
So, what happens is, once you've done
this, you use these tokens to create
URLs that allow you to
legitimately access Twitter's API,
application program interface.
And so, we're going to use
this thing with OAuth.
And it turns out OAuth is this
technique for sending signatures and
verifying signatures and
it's used in many applications.
Google uses it, Facebook uses it,
Netflix uses it, Twitter uses it.
It's a really simple and yet very elegant
security mechanism that can make it so
each URL that you're going to hit can
be signed separately using OAuth.
It's quite elegant.
I've written some OAuth code myself.
And we're going to actually just hit a URL.
This URL right here.
And we're going to go find a timeline.
And we'll talk a little bit
more about making these things.
Right now I want to talk about the OAuth,
the security that it takes to do this.
And so, I have written a bit of code
called twurl.
And that's actually right here,
it's in the thing, and
it takes those secrets and
it calls a routine called oauth.
So oauth is a library.
So Python, like always,
has OAuth built in.
And hidden is the hidden file.
hidden.py is this file.
hidden.py is that file.
And then, the twurl reads the secrets,
it imports the oauth library,
uses urllib because it is going to
encode one of those parameters.
And so this stuff here,
don't worry too much about that.
If you were to say like,
how do you do OAuth signing in Python?
And go to Stack Overflow,
you would probably see something
that looks something like that.
As a matter of fact that's
probably how I got it.
But the idea is,
is this is a function that takes a URL and
then some key-value parameters,
this is a dictionary.
And then it basically
creates this long URL.
So this is the URL.
And then all this other stuff,
and when you look at this,
all this stuff here,
this is the signature part, right?
And this URL, this screen name of drchuck,
well that's sending a parameter.
The timeline is what day do you want.
And then this code right here
adds all this other stuff, okay?
And so I just made it so I had this thing
like, oh here's the URL I want to hit,
and here's the parameters that
I want to put on that URL,
augment this URL with
all this magic stuff.
So this routine called augment
adds this stuff right here so
that we can just hit the URL and
then get data back.
If you go back to the previous thing
where we were talking to Google,
we would just make the URL and
retrieve the URL and it worked.
Now we have to make the URL, augment
it with the signature stuff on it, and
this is the signature stuff.
And then we can do a get
request on that URL.
So let's take a look at what we do.
Once we have this.
So, we have this little guy
called twtest, and
it imports the augment function,
and it imports urllib.
And so it says, okay I would like
to see the user's timeline for
the screen name of drchuck and
show me the first two.
And so it augments the URL, which
means it's adding the stuff.
So, we take the this thing and
that's how it adds all the stuff, right?
We pass in this part and
then we pass in the two parameters,
the count and the screen name.
And then the augment adds the security
stuff so when we print this URL,
clear that, we print this URL it's
going to look pretty much like that.
And I'll run this in a second so
you see how it really works.
Dot, dot, dot something.
Then this bit of code is pretty
much exactly the code we used
when we were doing this with Google and
so we do a urlopen and then we do a read.
And then we print that data, and
this is going to be JSON data, and
then we can ask information
about the headers.
If you go way back two or
three lectures ago,
I talked about how you get the headers
of a HTTP request and the body.
This is our way of asking for the headers.
Let me clear that.
This gets the body.
And this gets a dictionary of the headers.
And you'll see why we want to see that.
And I'm just going to print
all that stuff out.
In this, I'm going to keep it really simple.
I want to focus on what's going on here,
where we're augmenting this URL.
Just remember that we're getting JSON back
here and we're getting JSON back there.
So let me go ahead and run this.
It's going to be really boring.
vi twtest.py
so that's the program and
again this is really to show you
how this augment thing works.
Because in the next one I'm
going to just assume you know that.
And then we're going to just read it.
We're going to read both the headers
and the data.
We just print everything out.
So, if I say python
twtest py.
So, it just ran.
So, let me sort of show you,
walk you through what happened there.
Okay.
So, this is that augmented URL, and
all that junk is the signature.
It's not, OAuth is really cool.
You don't actually send the secret.
You send this thing called a signature.
And it's got these things that include
the time so you can't do it twice.
All these other things are really cool.
And so we just did a urllib open and
a read, and then we got some JSON.
And it's a lot of JSON.
And later we'll take a look at this JSON.
So, what we got were the first
two entries of my status
which is going to go down, down.
There it goes.
Let's see.
So, this is the end of that. We'll see this
in a prettier way in an upcoming slide.
And remember I printed out
both the body and the headers.
And so in the headers it's a dictionary.
So this is a dictionary.
And this tells us something, right?
And if you go back to HTTP,
you don't have to know all this stuff.
There was a content length and this turns
out to be like when our rate limit is
going to get reset because we're talking
to an API that gives us our rate limit.
And this one's probably
the most important thing.
The rate limit remaining says 178.
Which means we can only
do this 178 times today.
All right?
It's going to reset perhaps tomorrow.
So, I'll do it again and you'll see that
my remaining thing will go down to 177.
So, I'll just run it again.
[SOUND] I did it.
Oops.
I went down to 176.
So, it's the rate limiting factor 176.
And there's other things.
And as you read the API specifications.
And this is not a class on
how to talk to Twitter.
You will see, oh, I will give you back
the rate limit, the number of API calls
you have remaining in the header field
x-rate-limit-remaining.
So you just look that up with square
brackets and then you can get that number.
Okay?
So now what we're going to do
is we're going to take a look at
a little more sophisticated application
that's going to do the same thing.
And we're just going to do something a little
more intelligent and parse the XML,
and actually go through
not just one thing,
but I mean parse the JSON and
go through it.
So, we're going to take a look at
the API developer documentation for
the friends list.
So we're just going to say I want
to see this person's friend list.
We're going to tell it which screen
name we're interested in,
we're going to use the augment, everything,
except now we're going to spend a little
more time focusing on the data
we get back and parsing, okay?
So here is twitter2.py.
So, twitter2.py,
it looks a lot like that twitter1.py,
except, I mean the twtest.py,
we import urllib, import twurl.
We're going to import json, cause we're
actually going to parse what we get back.
We read the API documentation,
and that's the base URL.
And we're going to write a loop here,
a while loop, and we're going to ask for
a Twitter account.
If we just press enter, which means the
length of that string is less than one,
we're going to break.
Then we're going to augment
this URL with the account.
This account comes from input, right?
And we're going to say,
give me the five friends.
Give me the five friends of
whatever account we type in.
And then we will print out,
just for debugging, the whole URL.
This is the augmented URL.
That's the augmented one.
Then we're going to open,
this code is just from the previous one.
We're going to open the URL.
We're going to read the body,
which will be JSON.
This reads the body.
Which is in JSON.
This is the headers
which are a dictionary.
So, as a side effect to this read.
We can say, oh, read the body but
also hold onto the headers and
give them to me later.
So data will be the JSON and
headers will be the remaining.
And so if you recall,
when I was showing you before,
we can find out what the remaining
number of times I can use this API by
looking up in the headers that we got
back under, x-rate-limit-remaining.
Look it up.
Print it out. Okay?
Then what we're going to do is
were going to deserialize the JSON.
Remember the JSON, the body, is like
curly braces and dot, dot, dot, dot, dot,
and we're going to turn that into a list,
an array, because we asked for five.
It's going to start us an array.
And give us back the array of entries
in this person's friend list.
Then what we're going to do, and
this is really common and helpful,
is we're going to dump that out with an
indent of four, and that's pretty printing.
And if you're ever looking
at JSON, and I guess I'll show you
this next time I flip over, you can find
a pretty printer where you can cut and
paste ugly JSON into a web page and
it will show you the pretty JSON.
But this, I'm going to do this with
json.dumps, and
that's taking this array of objects and
then dumping it in a nice thing where
everything lines up and they indent it
and outdent it and stuff like that.
So that's nice debugging.
I like doing that. Indent's four
is how many spaces to put on each thing.
So then what I'm going to do is I'm going to
go through the list of all the users who
are friends.
And then for each user, so
user's going to go [SOUND].
That's how you loop through a list in
Python, because with the JSON turned into a
Python list, and then we're going to print out
the screen_name and their status of text.
And so we're just going to parse all
this stuff and go dig through it.
And so this is what that looks like.
We're going to retrieve the URL,
we've got an object that includes
the users which is a list.
And here's the first one and
then there's many of these things.
There, it's very, very long.
I truncated it here.
And then it's showing me the screen name,
and the person, and the status
and it's just pulling it out.
So, let's see.
We find the screen name is here.
We find the status text is here, right?
So clear this, let me be clearer on this.
So this is the JSON debugged,
actually truncated.
And we're going to go in for
each of the users,
we're going to pull out the status text,
which is this bit right here, and
show that. And then we are going to find the
screen name of the person, right there.
This happens to be my friend
list from a while back,
and I had just added Leah Culver.
She's an open source software developer,
and she wrote the PHP OAuth.
She wrote free code.
So, thank you Leah.
She wrote it.
I use her code all the time.
So let's run this code.
Let's go ahead and run this code.
And before I do that, I'm going to show
you how to do JSON pretty printing.
So if you end up with some really ugly
JSON like we had from this other thing
that I just did, and it's really long and
really bad, I can copy this.
I can take this.
The JSON starts there
with that square brace.
It looks scary but you kind of get,
it's like the matrix after a while,
you sort of figure out what's going on,
it starts to make more sense.
Okay.
Oh, I messed up.
I got to start over, get that JSON.
So, right there, I copy it.
Then I go to a Google browser and
I say, pretty print json, and
pick one,
hopefully one without too many ads.
Paste that monstrously difficult
stuff to read, and then there you go.
It reads perfectly, right?
And so this just,
if you're debugging something and
you're printing JSON out, fine.
But it's easier in Python to do
what I'm doing here in twitter2.py,
and that is, I've got my own pretty
printer, right here where I dumps.
So this is the JSON data
that's been parsed, but
then I dump it with an indent of four.
Okay, so
we already talked through this thing.
We read an account, we augment
a URL with these two parameters.
We do a read of it.
We're going to look up the remaining
rates that the number thinks we got.
Then we're going to pull out the screen
name and the status text and print that.
So, python twitter2.py.
Leah Culver won't be my
first friend anymore.
It'll be whoever I did recently.
Yeah.
Okay, so there I get, so you see
the pretty printing works out really nice.
Right?
I asked for the last five users.
It's quite a bit of stuff.
And after a while you don't want to
print all this stuff out.
Right?
So let's go up to top here.
So I have 14 remaining calls to this.
So I got it figured out nicely.
You could look that up.
And then users is an array,
and there's all this data.
Let's see, let's find the screen name.
The status text.
I pulled that out for
this first person, now let's see
if I can find the screen name.
Screen name knightfdn, knight foundation.
So let's go back down to the bottom.
So, I said that's a person I'd,
and then Rose.
Hi Rose.
Rose from UCLA.
And let me see who Rose's friends are.
So I had 14 left.
Okay, so this is Rose's five friends.
Right?
So USNewsEducation.
Let's see who USNewsEducation's
five friends are.
Now I'm doing all these as me, and
if we go way up to the top here, well,
I don't know, could be a ways.
Come on little mouse cursor.
Let's see how many I got left.
Every time I do this,
my number will go down.
Right there.
See, I only have 12 left.
After a while, I would comment
out the dumping of this JSON.
I only print the JSON out when I'm
actually trying to figure out how
to parse it.
So that gives you a sense
of using that Twitter API.
And that sort of brings us
to the end of this API web
reading structured data
using web technologies.
And application program interfaces,
you know,
they're a set of rules, we can
read the documentation.
Figure out how to write code.
Sometimes you have to use things
like OAuth to secure your URLs and
often these things have rate limits.
We talked both about XML and
JSON as serialization formats.
So we've covered a lot of stuff.
We've covered APIs.
We talked about OAuth.
You don't have to know all this stuff.
As you start to look for sources of data,
these are just tools in a tool kit.
And we'll have you do some assignments
that hit on some of these things, and
then lectures in later courses
will make use of the skills that
we've learned in this section.